# cxf-bean-validation

Goal of the proposed extension to Apache CXF is the generation of facets in the XSD part of the WSDL generated by the Maven plugin cxf-java2ws-plugin. If the generated WSDL CXF exposes at runtime includes the facets as well - even better.

This example project generates a wsdl, and in src/main/resources you find a pimped wsdl with facets included.

Here is a list of all facets, and how they should be added if bean validation annotations are present:

## enumeration
*Defines a list of acceptable values*

Nothing to do.
## fractionDigits
*Specifies the maximum number of decimal places allowed. Must be equal to or greater than zero*

Annotation @Digits, attribute fraction.
## length
*Specifies the exact number of characters or list items allowed. Must be equal to or greater than zero*

Annotation @Size if attributes min and max are equal.
## maxExclusive
*Specifies the upper bounds for numeric values (the value must be less than this value)*

Annotation @DecimalMax if attribute inclusive is false. 
## maxInclusive
*Specifies the upper bounds for numeric values (the value must be less than or equal to this value)*

Annotation @DecimalMax if attribute inclusive is true (default).

Annotation @Max.
## maxLength
*Specifies the maximum number of characters or list items allowed. Must be equal to or greater than zero*

Annotation @Size, attribute max.
## minExclusive
*Specifies the lower bounds for numeric values (the value must be greater than this value)*

Annotation @DecimalMin if attribute inclusive is false.
## minInclusive
*Specifies the lower bounds for numeric values (the value must be greater than or equal to this value)*

Annotation @DecimalMin if attribute inclusive is true (default).

Annotation @Min.
## minLength
*Specifies the minimum number of characters or list items allowed. Must be equal to or greater than zero*

Annotation @Size, attribute min.
## pattern
*Defines the exact sequence of characters that are acceptable*

Annotation @Pattern, attribute regexp. Check if regular expressions are handled the same way.
## totalDigits
*Specifies the exact number of digits allowed. Must be greater than zero*

Annotation @Digits, sum of attributes integer und fraction.
## whiteSpace
*Specifies how white space (line feeds, tabs, spaces, and carriage returns) is handled*

Nothing to do.
